
Solving complex problems is much like flashing a light in the
darkness.

The light comes on. You see a vague shimmer. From that view,
from that abstract way of looking at things, you are able to
see something. You see something about its shape, something about
its color, something about how it reflects the light.

You move to another spot, you shine the light again.

From that angle you see different colors, a different shape,
a different reflectivity. Something about how it moves.

It's still just a blob, though, and your battery is now dead.

You rifle through your pocket and grab a laser pointer. You
shine that on the thing.

Your beam darts about the room, leaving red dots everywhere on
the walls, outlining the shape of the object- You've found a
useful way of looking at it.

Solving engineering problems is much like this. Multiple angles,
multiple ways of thinking, multiple ways of modelling, multiple
grooves of thought are all relevant. Every avenue of reasoning
is valuable, as it provides more light- more patterns to match
and apply.

Every bit of wisdom is worth a fortune and every new way of
thinking is worth two kingdoms and their princesses. 

To know the shape of logic and the texture of true reasoning,
the color of truth and the flavor of an idea.

This is what intellectual tools should aim to help a person do- 

think about, model, visualize, hear, smell, taste their ideas.

Try them, mold them, feel them. Rub up against them for warmth
and comfort on a cold winter day.

Every possible avenue for comprehension must be available for
exploration, at a moment's notice, at the direction of the
truth-seeker. Every way of modelling, every way of describing,
every way of conveying.

SEABASS enables a programmer to describe their own programming
languages and mix-and-match them together. CBAS enables a person
to use every available means of expressing solutions- including
ones they have just devised themselves.

The ultimate goal of SEABASS as a programming language, as well
as all the work that stems from it, is to enable the most efficient
and effective use of the mind of the intellectual laborer. To best
utilize a person's God-given mind and god-given talents for their
own advancement as well as the greater body of man as a whole.

THE STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT:

1. SEABASS's metaprogramming utilities-

    Quickly and efficiently create new syntaxes and new programing language constructs
    using both a powerful and flexible base language and hundreds of convenient and powerful
    abstractions and abstraction-making-tools.
    
    Create new programs, tools, libraries, and full software suites quickly by building on
    and using every piece of knowledge, every implementation, and every scrap of code available
    on your system's drive.
    
    This project will be ongoing so long as I can get new ideas for possible abstractions or
    ways of modelling problems in code.
    
2. SEABASS's code editor

    Typing in a text file is not good enough. I use my imagination and mind's eye to understand
    problems and solve them. I want code to look like how I think about it, and I want to be able
    to choose different ways of thinking about code for different parts of the code- maybe even
    the same code.
    
    SEABASS's code editor needs to have ways to model problems visually and auditorily, with
    built-in facilities for quickly modelling your own ideas and tying them directly to SEABASS
    code. It should be possible to have ten different ways of thinking about the same problem
    and see all of them when looking at the SEABASS editor.
    
    The controls of the editor must also be customizable, so they can reflect any way of thinking
    that is devised or desired by the programmer. Whatsoever model can be devised for drawing pixels 
    to the screen or playing music on the speakers or vibrating a controller, it must be possible with
    this code editor. Every avenue for intellectual stimulation must be available as a way to
    work on, read, create and edit code. It all must be relevant.
    
3. A complete system implementation

    Once SEABASS as a language has reached full maturity (or been replaced by one that has),
    and a code editor which allows one to model his ideas and reason about them quickly has been
    created, we need a complete system. A full operating system, from kernel to web browser, which
    is designed entirely around metaprogramming and meta-engineering. Multi-tasking is not enough,
    we need to have glue code between everything that exists on the computer, and the ability to make
    new glue code quickly.
    
    Everything must be available for tinkering. Everything must be possible to visualize. Every
    parenthesis and every curly brace needs to be at the fingertips of the user, able to be "plugged into"
    anything else on the system.
    
    It all has to be open source. It all has to work with existing technologies and be capable
    of designing new ones (more in-line with the meta-engineering scheme) to replace them.
    
    This will enable a single person to explore a topic, educate himself, reason on his own and
    spawn new ideas at a rate that has never been possible at any other time in history.
    
    It will be the answer to my prayer to God for the ultimate set of tools. The ultimate computer.
    
    This system needs to be addictive. It must give dopamine bursts to the thinker for every new
    idea he has and everything he makes. It must be quick and easy to use. It must be easy to make it
    easier to use. It must teach the user how it works and how to improve it, how it can be iterated 
    on so that the user will become the master and tweak every jot and tittle of the source code to be 
    exactly what he wants.
    
    It must DISCOURAGE unthinking. It must discourage non-engagement. It must use every possible
    way to hook the user, to entertain him and draw him into thinking. It must lull him, seduce
    him with the sweet savour of a hard problem and the joy of solving it. The blunt force of
    reality must be applied to the unthinking or lazy man's back, to save his mind from decay
    and underutilization. 
    
    This system of designed addiction must be implemented in such a way that the addict hates
    unthinking, hates poor reasoning, hates falsehood, and hates lying. They must be trained to
    love the LORD our God as he truly is, not the idols.
    
    Every man must be encouraged in paths of advancement and discouraged in paths that lead to
    rot and decay of the mind.
    
4. A new education system.

    The education system in advanced nations must be re-designed to focus on deep analysis and
    engineering. Facts must be taught in multiple ways to engage all the rivulets of thinking in
    the students.
    
    It must be possible for teachers (and students) to quickly and efficiently create models and
    representations of information. All data, all theories, all paths of reasoning must be made
    to shine in the darkness by their full colors in all spectra, in a glorious God-created rainbow
    of pure truth, revealing his character and his goodness through the things that are made.
    
    This education system must focus on training a THINKER and a DOER. Not someone who slacks off,
    not someone who spends all his time browsing tiktok. Not someone who isn't interested in working
    hard with his mind.
    
    Every individual must be encouraged to delve deeper. Don't just swim at the surface. Don the
    swim suit and scuba gear, and when you've gotten beyond that, climb into the submarine, travel 
    down to Marianna's trench. The snorkel gear is a waste of time, and the scantily clad women
    on the beach, staring at their phones are not worth thinking about.
    
    Every diver into the waters of mystery must be equipped with a lantern that shines in all 
    colors at once to tear back the black curtain that covers most of the deep.
    
    Once a treasure has been found, it must be made to shine brightly so the diver can retrieve it
    and carry it to the surface, to make it well-known and easily accessible to everyone.
    
    This process will replace the existing system of universities and journals. People will not
    trust some complicated magazine with big words to dictate truth, or a highly-paid professor
    who smacks his lips for an hour and a half three days a week to teach you ideas that really
    only take thirty seconds to explain.
    
    People will trust those who use the simple words to peal back the darkness of confusion 
    and misunderstanding that dwell in the depths of that ocean. Those who can prove their ideas
    in a way that all can understand- a loving demonstration and conveyance of intellectual 
    dominance and power.
    
5. Greater Christianity

    Once man is able to fully utilize his mental faculties, man's ability to comprehend the
    scriptures will drastically increase. Analyses of scripture and scriptural teaching will
    advance. The wrongness of heresies and the glory of truth will simultaneously shine their
    true colors- one to condemnation, and the other to everlasting joy.
    
    The words of our Lord Jesus Christ, who is, who was, and who is to come, will shine brighter
    than ever before. Every phrase of every paragraph will be able to be appreciated by men whose
    minds have been carefully tuned for high-performance analysis and reasoning.
    
    Satan's powers to confuse and befuddle the minds of men shall be driven back. The church will
    flourish in ways that it hasn't done since the first century, as recorded in Acts.
    
    My prayer will be answered. 
    
6. What shall befall this world?

    Now that this plan is laid out, how do we understand its fulfillment, in light of
    biblical prophecy and the end times?
    
    I suppose only time will tell.
    
    
    
